# Django Tutorials

## Install Django

```shell
pip3 install django
```

## Start Project

```shell
django-admin startproject PROJECT_NAME
```

## Run the Server

```shell
python manage.py runserver
```

## Create Django Application

```shell
python manage.py startapp APP_NAME
```



## Folder structure

1. PROJECT_NAME
* __\_\_init\_\___ : Marks the directory as a Python package.
* __asgi\.py__ : ASGI configuration for deployment.
* __setting\.py__ : Contains project settings such as database configuration, installed apps, middleware, etc.
* __urls\.py__ : This file contains the URL patterns for your project. It maps URLs to views (controllers) that handle the incoming requests.
* __wsgi\.py__ : This file is the entry point for the WSGI-compatible web servers to serve your Django application.
2. APP_NAME
* __migration/__ : This subdirectory contains database migration files generated by Django when you make changes to your models.
* __admin\.py__ : his file contains configuration for the Django admin interface, where you can manage your database records through a user-friendly interface.
* __apps\.py__ : This file contains the configuration for the app, such as the app name and any app-specific settings.
* __models\.py__ : This file contains the database models for the app. Each model class represents a database table and its fields.
* __tests\.py__ : This file contains unit tests for the app. You can write test cases to ensure that your app's functionality works as expected.
* __views\.py__ : This file contains the views (controllers) for the app. Views are Python functions that handle incoming requests, process data, and return responses.

## Run the server
```shell
python manage.py runserver
```
Open in your browser the link http://127.0.0.1:8000


## Add  App_name definition
in the __setting\.py__ file add the name of the app in the __INSTALLED_APPS__ array :
```python
INSTALLED_APPS = [
    'django.contrib.admin',
    'django.contrib.auth',
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    'django.contrib.sessions',
    'django.contrib.messages',
    'django.contrib.staticfiles',
    # own
    'app_name'
]
```

## View with HttpResponse
in the __view\.py__ file in the APP folder create the function for the view
```python
from django.shortcuts import render
from django.http import HttpResponse

# Create your views here.
def home(request):
    return HttpResponse('<h1>Hellow World!</h1>')
```
Then create a __urls\.py__ file in the some folder and insert the folowing code :
```python
from django.urls import path
from . import views

urlpatterns = [
    path('', views.home, name='home')
]
```
Then in the file __urls\.py__ in the Project folder modify the code as the folowing :
```python
from django.contrib import admin
from django.urls import path, include

urlpatterns = [
    path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
    path('', include('hello.urls'))
]
```

## Views with html templates

in tha App folder add a folder with the name __templates__, in it add a hellow world html file (index.html):

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Hello</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Hellow world!</h1>   
</body>
</html>
```
in the __view\.py__ file in the APP folder create the function for the view

```python
def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html')
```
Add the url in the __urls\.py__ in the App folder
```python
from django.urls import path
from . import views

urlpatterns = [
    path('', views.home, name='home'),
    path('index/', views.index, name='index')
]
```
Run the server and tape the url in the adresse bar of the browser : http://127.0.0.1:8000/index